<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
    <title>.: jsolait :. | documentation | crypto</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="./html.css" />
    <meta name="author" content="Jan-Klaas Kollhof" />
    <meta name="keywords" content="jsolait.crypto" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <a name="top" id="top"></a>
    <div class="navigationBar"><a href="./index.xhtml">documentation</a> | 
                    crypto</div>
    <div class="menu">
      <ul></ul>
      <div class="copyright">copyright © 2004, Jan-Klaas Kollhof</div>
    </div>
    <div class="content">
         <h1>Module crypto</h1>
         This module adds cryptographic services to jsolait.
         <br />
         
         <div class="contentItem"><h2>public members:<a class="bttop" href="#top">▲</a></h2><div>
              
                 <h3>listEncrypters()</h3><div class="indent">
                              Returns an Array of all available encrypter names.<br />
                 </div>
                 <h3>listDecrypters()</h3><div class="indent">
                              Returns an Array of all available decrypter names.<br />
                 </div>
         </div></div>
         
         <div class="contentItem"><h2>globals:<a class="bttop" href="#top">▲</a></h2><div>
              
                 <h3>String::encrypt(crydec)</h3><div class="indent">
                              Encrypts a string using the encrypter specified by the <code>crydec</code>.<br />
                            All parameters but the <code>crypdec</code> parameter are forwardet to the encrypter.<br />
                 </div>
                 <h3>String::decrypt(crydec)</h3><div class="indent">
                              Decrypts a string using the decrypter specified by the <code>crydec</code>.<br />
                            All parameters but the <code>crypdec</code> parameter are forwardet to the decrypter.<br />
                 </div>
                 <h3>String::encrypt_xor(key)</h3><div class="indent">
                              Encrypts a string by  XOR.<br />
                              The whole String will be XORed with the <code>key</code> parameter. <br />
                              If the key is shorter than the String then it will be multiplied to fit the length of the String.<br />
                 </div>
                 <h3>String::decrypt_xor</h3><div class="indent">
                              Decrypts a string using XOR.<br />
                            Since XORing is symetric it is the same as the encrypter.<br />
                 </div>
                 <h3>String::encrypt_rc4(key)</h3><div class="indent">
                              Encrypts a string using the ARC4 algorithm.<br />
                             The key is a String and can be of any length.
                 </div>
                 <h3>String::decrypt_rc4</h3><div class="indent">
                              Decrypts a string using the ARC4 algorithm.<br />
                            Since it is symetric it is the same as the encrypter.<br />
                 </div>
         </div></div>
         
         <div class="contentItem"><h2>encrypters/decrypters<a class="bttop" href="#top">▲</a></h2><div>
            
            Currently there are only two encrypters/decrypters <b>xor</b> and <b>rc4</b>.<br />
            If you want to add your own at runtime just extend the Stringl class by adding a 
            <code>String.prototype.encrypt_yourEncrypter</code> or
            <code>String.prototype.decrypt_yourDecrypter</code> method.
        </div></div>
        
     </div>
  </body>
</html>
